I bought this book as part of my "last minute geography scramble" (or in
Chinese 抱佛脚) plan. Never really knew much about human geography, I
find the book a nice guide to an entry level overview of the discipline.
However, I also find that reading the book chapter by chapter without
seeking the original texts very boring and discouraging.

Because [[http://davidharvey.org/][David Harvey]] has three entries in
the list of key texts mentioned in the book and
[[http://www.open.ac.uk/socialsciences/staff/people-profile.php?name=Doreen_Massey][Doreen
Massey]] two, there are more contributors to the book than the authors
of the "key texts" covered. But the editors have done a good job
organising a series of chapters with their distinct writing styles and
foci. First of all, the chapters were largely arranged in chronological
order. As a result by reading the chapter titles alone you can get a
sense of the development of the discipline from 1950s to recent years.
Secondly, for the earlier decades this kind of organisation also
reflects the general trend of thought during that time, such as the
"quantitative revolution" in 1950s and 1960s, and the emergence of
radical geography in 1980s. However, in later decades such common focus
in geographers' thinking becomes less obvious, reflecting the
diversification of the discipline and its interweaving with other
disciplines such as economics or sociology.

Each of the contributors has also managed to make their chapter as
readable and informative as possible. They may have had a standardised
template to remind them what should be included in each chapter, just
like that outlined on the back cover. But each contributor surely put
their own thoughts on the key text of their choice into their writing,
and makes every chapter unique. Some of the contributors are becoming
key thinkers themselves, and it would be interesting to examine how the
key text informed or inspired them to pursue their own thinking on that
particular topic.

To a large extent, the expectation you hold when you open the book
determines how well you can appreciate it. On the one hand, as
emphasised in the introduction, do not think that you can read the book
in the place of those key texts. If you do so, you will feel like that
you have some beautifully drawn maps to islands of treasures yet you
have no vessel to reach there, and the maps only add to your
frustration. On the other hand, these introductions are written by
established geographers and they will try everything to make the point
that geography is no longer a descriptive practice but a science with
established theory system, so be prepared for academic style writing not
any easier than that you can find in a mainstream human geography
journal. That said, to make the most out of the book, the reader should
try to seek the original key texts, and use this book as their guide. At
that point, one should find the book helpful, interesting and valuable.
